.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Gary Mills
.\"
.TH GETLOGIN 3C "Mar 15, 2014"
.SH NAME
getlogin, getlogin_r \- get login name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBgetlogin\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetlogin_r\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInamesize\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR function returns a pointer to the login name as found in
\fB/var/log/utmpx\fR. It can be used in conjunction with \fBgetpwnam\fR(3C) to
locate the correct password file entry when the same user \fBID\fR is shared by
several login names.
.sp
.LP
The login name plus the terminating null byte can be up to 33 characters
in length.
Newly-compiled programs should use the \fBLOGIN_NAME_MAX\fR symbol,
defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR>, to size the buffer.
.sp
.LP
If \fBgetlogin()\fR is called within a process that is not attached to a
terminal, it returns a null pointer. The correct procedure for determining the
login name is to call \fBcuserid\fR(3C), or to call \fBgetlogin()\fR and if it
fails to call \fBgetpwuid\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function has the same functionality as \fBgetlogin()\fR
except that the caller must supply a buffer \fIname\fR with length \fInamesize\fR
to store the result.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgetlogin()\fR returns a pointer to the login
name or a null pointer if the user's login name cannot be found.  Otherwise it
returns a null pointer and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
\fBgetlogin_r()\fR returns \fB0\fR if successful, or the error number upon
failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The size of the buffer is smaller than the result to be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
And entry for the current user was not found in the \fB/var/log/utmpx\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR and \fBgetlogin_r()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR} file descriptors currently open in the calling
process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The calling process has no controlling terminal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The size of the buffer is smaller than the result to be returned.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The return value of \fBgetlogin()\fR points to thread-specific data whose
content is overwritten on each call by the same thread.
.sp
.LP
Three names associated with the current process can be determined:
\fBgetpwuid(\fR\fBgeteuid()\fR\fB)\fR returns the name associated with the
effective user ID of the process; \fBgetlogin()\fR returns the name associated
with the current login activity; and \fBgetpwuid(\fR\fBgetuid()\fR\fB)\fR
returns the name associated with the real user ID of the process.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/log/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user access and administration information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/getloginx.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A compatibility library that returns long login names to older applications.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/getloginx.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A 64-bit compatibility library to return long login names.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	See below.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgeteuid\fR(2), \fBgetuid\fR(2), \fBcuserid\fR(3C), \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C),
\fBgetpwnam\fR(3C), \fBgetpwuid\fR(3C), \fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded programs, see \fBIntro\fR(3).
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR function is safe to use in multithreaded applications, but
is discouraged. The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function should be used instead.
