.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2016 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2018 Josef 'Jeff' Sipek <jeffpc@josefsipek.net>
.\"
.TH FILESYSTEM 5 "Jan 20, 2018"
.SH NAME
filesystem \- File system organization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/
.fi

.LP
.nf
/usr
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The file system tree is organized for administrative convenience. Distinct
areas within the file system tree are provided for files that are private to
one machine, files that can be shared by multiple machines of a common
platform, files that can be shared by all machines, and home directories. This
organization allows sharable files to be stored on one machine but accessed by
many machines using a remote file access mechanism such as \fBNFS\fR. Grouping
together similar files makes the file system tree easier to upgrade and manage.
.sp
.LP
The file system tree consists of a root file system and a collection of
mountable file systems. The \fBmount\fR(2) program attaches mountable file
systems to the file system tree at mount points (directory entries) in the root
file system or other previously mounted file systems. Two file systems, \fB/\fR
(the root) and \fB/usr\fR, must be mounted and \fB/var\fR must be accessible to
have a functional system. The root file system is mounted automatically by the
kernel at boot time; the \fB/usr\fR file system is mounted by the system
start-up script, which is run as part of the booting process. \fB/var\fR can be
mounted as its own file system or be part of \fB/usr\fR, as it is by default.
.sp
.LP
The following descriptions make use of the terms \fBplatform\fR,
\fBplatform-dependent\fR, \fBplatform-independent\fR, and
\fBplatform-specific\fR. Platform refers to a machines Instruction Set
Architecture or processor type, such as is returned by \fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR.
\fBPlatform-dependent\fR refers to a file that is installed on all platforms
and whose contents vary depending on the platform. Like a platform-dependent
file, a \fBplatform-independent\fR file is installed on all platforms. However,
the contents of the latter type remains the same on all platforms. An example
of a platform-dependent file is compiled, executable program. An example of a
platform-independent file is a standard configuration file, such as
\fB/etc/hosts\fR. Unlike a platform-dependent or a platform-independent file,
the \fBplatform-specific\fR file is installed only on a subset of supported
platforms. Most platform-specific files are gathered under \fB/platform\fR and
\fB/usr/platform\fR.
.SS "Root File System"
.LP
The root file system contains files that are unique to each machine. It
contains the following directories:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Root of the overall file system name space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device name file system. See \fBdev\fR(7FS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/cfg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic links to physical \fBap_ids.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/cpu\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Provides configuration and capability information about the processor type
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/cua\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device files for serial ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/dsk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Block disk devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/dtrace\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pseudo-devices used by the DTrace framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/dtrace/provider\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pseudo-device drivers representing instrumentation providers for the DTrace
framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/fbs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Frame buffer device files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/fd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File descriptors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/net\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Network data-link interface devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/printers\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
USB printer device files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/pts\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pseudo-terminal devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/rdsk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Raw disk devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/rmt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Raw tape devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/sad\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entry points for the \fBSTREAMS\fR Administrative driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/sound\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Audio device and audio device control files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/swap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default swap device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/term\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Terminal devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/devices\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The devices file system. See \fBdevfs\fR(7FS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent administrative and configuration files and databases that
are not shared among systems. \fB/etc\fR may be viewed as the directory that
defines the machine's identity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/X11\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Xorg Xserver (X11) configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/acct\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Process accounting system configuration information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/cron.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration information for \fBcron\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains a list of interface adapters supported by uDAPL service providers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defaults information for various programs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/devices\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains device-related data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration information for shared file systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dhcp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (\fBDHCP\fR) configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/flash\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flash Archive configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/fm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fault manager configuration files. For more information, see \fBfmd\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/fonts\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Font configuration information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/fs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Binaries organized by file system types for operations required before
\fB/usr\fR is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ftpd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBftpd\fR configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generic Security Service (\fBGSS\fR) Application Program Interface
configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration files for Internet services.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/init.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shell scripts for transitioning between init states. The service management
facility, \fBsmf\fR(5) is the preferred mechanism for managing services.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/krb5\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Kerberos configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shared libraries needed during booting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mail subsystem configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/net\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration information for transport independent network services.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
NFS server logging configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ppp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBPPP\fR configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rc0.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts for entering or leaving run level 0. See \fBinit\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rc1.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts for entering or leaving run level 1. See \fBinit\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rc2.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts for entering or leaving run level 2. See \fBinit\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rc3.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts for entering or leaving run level 3. See \fBinit\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rcS.d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts for bringing the system up in single user mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rcm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory for reconfiguration manager (RCM) custom scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/saf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Service Access Facility files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/sasl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) server configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System-delivered security configuration files (Audit, RBAC, crypto, Trusted
Extensions).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/skel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default profile scripts for new user accounts. See \fBuseradd\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ssh\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Secure Shell configuration files. See \fBssh\fR(1)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/svc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SMF service repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/sysevent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBsyseventd\fR configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/\fIsubsystem\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent \fIsubsystem\fR configuration files that are not shared
among systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/usb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBUSB\fR configuration information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/zfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the zfs state file, \fBzpool.cache\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/zones\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Zones configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/export\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default root of the shared file system tree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/home\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default root of a subtree for user directories. Often managed by the
automounter, see \fBautomount\fR(8) for more details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Subtree of platform-dependent loadable kernel modules required as part of the
boot process. It includes the generic part of the core kernel that is
platform-independent, \fB/kernel/genunix\fR. See \fBkernel\fR(8)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device drivers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/dtrace\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Kernel modules representing components in the DTrace framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/genunix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-independent kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/svc/manifest\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SMF method scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/mnt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default temporary mount point for file systems. This is an empty directory on
which file systems can be temporarily mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/net\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Temporary mount point for file systems that are mounted by the automounter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/opt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Root of a subtree for add-on application packages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/platform\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Subtree of platform-specific objects which need to reside on the root
filesystem. It contains a series of directories, one per supported platform.
The semantics of the series of directories is equivalent to \fB/\fR (root).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-specific modules required for boot. These modules have semantics
equivalent to \fB/kernel\fR. It includes the file \fBunix\fR, the core kernel.
See \fBkernel\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR
\fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/kernel/unix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/proc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Root of a subtree for the process file system. See \fBproc\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/sbin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Essential executables used in the booting process and in manual system
recovery. The full complement of utilities is available only after \fB/usr\fR
is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/system\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mount point for the contract (CTFS) and object (OBJFS) file systems. See
\fBctfs\fR(7FS) and \fBobjfs\fR(7FS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Temporary files. Usually mounted as a memory based file system. See
\fBtmpfs\fR(7FS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mount point for the \fB/usr\fR file system. See description of \fB/usr\fR file
system, below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Root of a subtree for varying files. Varying files are files that are unique to
a machine but that can grow to an arbitrary (that is, variable) size. An
example is a log file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/audit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default location for Audit log files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/cores\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory provided for global core files storage. See \fBcoreadm\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/crash\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default depository for kernel crash dumps. See \fBdumpadm\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/cron\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Log files for \fBcron\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/fm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fault manager state files. For more information, see \fBfmd\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/inet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IPv6 router state files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/krb5\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Database and log files for Kerberos.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/ld\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration files for runtime linker. See \fBcrle\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/ldap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
LDAP client configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory for variable state information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/log\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System log files and accounting files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/mail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory where users' mail is kept.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/news\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Community service messages. This is not the same as USENET-style news.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/nfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
NFS server log files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/ntp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Network Time Protocol (\fBNTP\fR) server state directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/opt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Root of a subtree for varying files associated with optional software packages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/preserve\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Backup files for \fBvi\fR(1) and \fBex\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/run\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Temporary files which are not needed across reboots. Only root may modify the
contents of this directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/saf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Service access facility logging and accounting files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains directories for files used in printer spooling, mail delivery,
\fBcron\fR(8), \fBat\fR(1), and so forth.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/cron\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBcron\fR(8) and \fBat\fR(1) spooling files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/statmon\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Network status monitor files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/log/svc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SMF log files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/svc/manifest\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SMF service manifests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/svc/manifest/site\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Site-local SMF service manifests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/tmp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Files that vary in size or presence during normal system operations. This
directory is \fBnot\fR cleared during the boot operation.
.sp
It is possible to change the default behavior for \fB/var/tmp\fR to clear all
of the files except editor temporary files by setting the \fBclean_vartmp\fR
property value of the \fBrmtmpfiles\fR service. This is done with the following
commands:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/system/rmtmpfiles setprop \e\fR
      \fBoptions/clean_vartmp = "true"\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/system/rmtmpfiles:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The \fBsolaris.smf.value.rmtmpfiles\fR authorization is required to modify this
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/yp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Databases used by \fBNIS\fR and \fBypbind\fR(8).
.RE

.SS "\fB/usr\fR File System"
.LP
Because it is desirable to keep the root file system small and not volatile, on
disk-based systems larger file systems are often mounted on \fB/home\fR,
\fB/opt\fR, \fB/usr\fR, and \fB/var\fR.
.sp
.LP
The file system mounted on \fB/usr\fR contains platform-dependent and
platform-independent sharable files. The subtree rooted at \fB/usr/share\fR
contains platform-independent sharable files; the rest of the \fB/usr\fR tree
contains platform-dependent files. By mounting a common remote file system, a
group of machines with a common platform may share a single \fB/usr\fR file
system. A single \fB/usr/share\fR file system can be shared by machines of any
platform. A machine acting as a file server can share many different \fB/usr\fR
file systems to support several different architectures and operating system
releases. In such configuration, the clients would usually mount \fB/usr\fR
read-only so that they do not accidentally change any shared files.
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr\fR file system contains the following subdirectories:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/X\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/usr/X11\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/X11\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Xorg Xserver (X11) executables and documentation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/bin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent, user-invoked executables. These are commands users expect
to be run as part of their normal \fB$PATH\fR. For executables that are
different on a 64-bit system than on a 32-bit system, a wrapper that selects
the appropriate executable is placed here. See \fBisaexec\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/bin/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit, platform-dependent, user-invoked executables. This directory should
not be part of a user's \fB$PATH\fR. A wrapper in \fB/usr/bin\fR should invoke
the executable in this directory. See \fBisaexec\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/bin/\fIsubsystem\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent user-invoked executables that are associated with
\fIsubsystem\fR. These are commands users expect to be run as part of their
normal \fB$PATH\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/\fIsubsystem\fR/bin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent user-invoked executables that are associated with
\fIsubsystem\fR. These are commands users expect to be run as part of their
normal \fB$PATH\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/\fIsubsystem\fR/bin/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit, platform-dependent, user-invoked executables. This directory should
not be part of a user's \fB$PATH\fR. A wrapper in \fB/usr/bin\fR should invoke
the executable in this directory. See \fBisaexec\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/games\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An empty directory, a remnant of the SunOS 4.0/4.1 software.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/include\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include headers (for C programs).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Subtree of platform-dependent loadable kernel modules, not needed in the root
filesystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and daemons not
invoked directly by a human user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/32\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to \fB/usr/lib\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the platform-dependent library directory (e.g.,
\fB/usr/lib/amd64\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/acct\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Accounting scripts and binaries. See \fBacct\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/adb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBadb\fR accounting scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and daemons not
invoked directly by a human user on 64-bit x86.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/autofs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the \fBautomountd\fR executable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/cfgadm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains \fBcfgadm\fR hardware-specific driver plugins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/class\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scheduling-class-specific directories containing executables for
\fBpriocntl\fR(1) and \fBdispadmin\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/crypto\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the kernel-level cryptographic framework daemon (\fBkcfd\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/devfsadm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains \fBdevfsadm\fR, the daemon version of \fBdevfsadm\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/dict\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Database files for \fBspell\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/dtrace\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains \fBdtrace\fR D source files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/fm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains \fBfmd\fR, the fault manager daemon and the fault manager library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/font\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBtroff\fR(1) font description files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/fs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File system type dependent modules; generally not intended to be invoked
directly by the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/gss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Secure services-related libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/iconv\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Conversion tables for \fBiconv\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/inet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains many network-related daemons and libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ipf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains \fBIPFILTER.LICENCE\fR and \fBipftest\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ipqosconf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IPQoS configuration utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/krb5\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the Kerberos database propagation program and libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ld\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the map files for the \fBld\fR link editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ldap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains LDAP client configuration utilities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Profiled libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/locale\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Localization databases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/netsvc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Internet network services.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/nfs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Auxiliary NFS-related programs and daemons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/pool\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the automated resource pools partitioning daemon (\fBpoold\fR) and
associated libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/power\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Power management daemon, \fBpowerd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/rcap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resource cap enforcement daemon, \fBrcapd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/rcm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the Reconfiguration and Coordination Manager daemon (\fBrcm_daemon\fR)
and RCM scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/refer\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Auxiliary programs for \fBrefer\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/rmmount\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removable media mounter shared objects.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/sa\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scripts and commands for the system activity report package. See \fBsar\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/saf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Auxiliary programs and daemons related to the service access facility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) plug-in modules.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/secure\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default trusted libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/security\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Security plug-in modules.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/smedia\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removable media device server daemon, \fBrpc.smserverd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/spell\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Auxiliary programs and databases for \fBspell\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/\fIsubsystem\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and daemons that are
associated with \fIsubsystem\fR and that are not invoked directly by a human
user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/\fIsubsystem\fR/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit, platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and
daemons that are associated with \fIsubsystem\fR and that are not invoked
directly by a human user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/\fIsubsystem\fR/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and daemons not
invoked directly by a human user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/\fIsubsystem\fR/lib/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit, platform-dependent libraries, various databases, commands and
daemons that are associated with \fIsubsystem\fR and that are not invoked
directly by a human user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/sysevent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains the system event notification daemon (\fBsyseventd\fR) and the
\fBsyseventd\fR loadable module (SLM) repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/zones\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Zone administration daemon (\fBzoneamd\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/mail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/var/mail\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/net/servers\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entry points for foreign name service requests relayed using the network
listener. See \fBlisten\fR(8).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/news\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/var/news\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/old\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Programs that are being phased out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Subtree of platform-specific objects which does not need to reside on the root
filesystem. It contains a series of directories, one per supported platform.
The semantics of the series of directories is equivalent to \fB/platform\fR,
except for subdirectories which do not provide utility under one or the other
(for example, \fB/platform/include\fR is not needed).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR
\fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/include\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-specific system (\fBsys\fR, \fBvm\fR) header files with semantics
equivalent to \fB/usr/include\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-specific shared objects with semantics equivalent to \fB/usr/lib\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR
\fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/lib/\fIsubsystem\fR/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
x86 64-bit, platform-specific daemon and shared objects.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform/\fR\fB`\fR\fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR\fB\fR\fB`\fR\fB/sbin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-specific system administration utilities with semantics equivalent to
\fB/usr/sbin\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/preserve\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/var/preserve\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/proc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Former location of the \fBproc\fR(1) tools, now containing compatibility
symbolic links to their new locations in \fB/usr/bin\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/sbin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent executables for system administration, expected to be run
only by system administrators.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/sbin/amd64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 versions of commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/sbin/\fIsubsystem\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent executables for system administration, expected to be run
only by system administrators, and associated with \fIsubsystem\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/\fIsubsystem\fR/sbin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-dependent executables for system administration, expected to be run
only by system administrators, and associated with \fIsubsystem\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-independent sharable files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/spool\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/var/spool\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/tmp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link to the \fB/var/tmp\fR directory.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBex\fR(1), \fBiconv\fR(1),
\fBisainfo\fR(1), \fBmail\fR(1), \fBmailx\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1),
\fBpriocntl\fR(1), \fBrefer\fR(1), \fBsar\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBspell\fR(1),
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBtroff\fR(1), \fBuname\fR(1),
\fBacct\fR(8), \fBcron\fR(8), \fBdispadmin\fR(8), \fBdladm\fR(8),
\fBfmd\fR(8), \fBfsck\fR(8), \fBinit\fR(8), \fBkernel\fR(8),
\fBmknod\fR(8), \fBmount\fR(8), \fBsvcadm\fR(8), \fBsvccfg\fR(8),
\fBuseradd\fR(8), \fBypbind\fR(8), \fBmount\fR(2), \fBIntro\fR(4),
\fBproc\fR(4), \fBterminfo\fR(4), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBctfs\fR(7FS),
\fBdev\fR(7FS), \fBdevfs\fR(7FS), \fBctfs\fR(7FS), \fBobjfs\fR(7FS),
\fBtmpfs\fR(7FS)
